Demo azure (#156)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/vantagecloud-lake/pages/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-azure.adoc

= Run Teradata Jupyter Notebook Demos for VantageCloud Lake in Azure
:experimental:
:page-author: Daniel Herrera
:page-email: daniel.herrera2@teradata.com
:page-revdate: January 26th, 2024
:description: Run Teradata Jupyter Notebook Demos for VantageCloud Lake in Azure
:keywords: data warehouses, compute storage separation, teradata, vantage, cloud data platform, business intelligence, enterprise analytics, jupyter, teradatasql, ipython-sql, cloud computing, machine learning, sagemaker, vantagecloud, vantagecloud lake, lake
:dir: vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-azure
:auxdir: vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-sagemaker

== Overview
This quickstart details the process for running the https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos[Teradata Jupyter Notebook Demos for Vantage Cloud Lake], on Microsoft Azure.

== Prerequisites
* Access to a Microsoft Azure account

> * https://quickstarts.teradata.com/getting-started-with-vantagecloud-lake.html[Access to a VantageCloud Lake environment]

Reviewer: It might be just me, but when I click on "Access to a VantageCloud Lake environment" I expect to be able to get access to VantageCloud Lake environment. The link is just an intro to Lake. Maybe we can say this:

```suggestion
* Access to a VantageCloud Lake environment (https://quickstarts.teradata.com/getting-started-with-vantagecloud-lake.html[read introduction to VantageCloud Lake], https://www.teradata.com/platform/vantagecloud[request access to VantageCloud Lake])
```

Author: Agreed.
Also.  We have included the same link in both SageMaker and Vertex AI. 
https://quickstarts.teradata.com/vantagecloud-lake/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-sagemaker.html
https://quickstarts.teradata.com/vantagecloud-lake/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-google-cloud-vertex-ai.html
Also there is a similar verbiage in all the quickstarts, I'm changing to a verbiage that, for now, points the people to sales to request an account and also mention the guide. I will add this as a partial so we can just agree on this and then change it at once for all, and also we can change it in one go when the public trials open.

== Microsoft Azure setup
In this section we will cover in detail each of the steps below:

* Create a Microsoft Azure Web App based on Teradata Jupyter Lab extensions Docker image
* Configure Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App
* Load Vantagecloud Lake demos to Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App
* Find the IP of the Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App

=== Create a Microsoft Azure Web App based on Teradata Jupyter Lab extensions Docker image
* Login to Microsoft Azure and click on APP Services 

image::{dir}/azure-console-0.PNG[Azure console,align="center" width=75%]

> * On App Services click Web App

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In App Services click Web App
```

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-1.PNG[Create Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

* On the Basics tab:
** Select the appropiate resource group
** Enter a name for your web app

> ** On Publish select Docker Container 

Reviewer: Sorry, I'm not familiar with the Azure Web App service UI. What is `Publish` in this context? A tab, a menu group?

Author: It is a dropdown I'm changing to the following:
Choose "Docker Container" from the "Publish" dropdown menu

** Select Linux as operating system
** Select the appropiate region according to your needs
** Select the appropiate App Service plan, if you don't have any a new one will be created with default configurations
** For purposes of the VantageCloud Lake demo redundancy is not needed

> image::{dir}/azure-app-service-2.PNG[Create Azure web app Basics,align="center" width=75%]

Reviewer: This picture seems to be related to the next bullet about the Docker tab?

* On the Docker tab:
** Select Single Container, the default option

> ** On Image Source select Docker Hub
> ** On Access Type select Public
> ** On Image and tag type `teradata/jupyterlab-extensions:latest`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** In Image Source select Docker Hub
** In Access Type select Public
** In Image and tag type `teradata/jupyterlab-extensions:latest`
```

** A startup command is not needed for this App Service

> image::{dir}/azure-app-service-3.PNG[Create Azure web app Docker,align="center" width=75%]

Reviewer: Again, perhaps this should be in the next bullet point?

Author: Not really, same comment as before.

* Select Review + Create
* Click on Create

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-4.PNG[Create Azure web app Review,align="center" width=75%]

* When the deployment is complete click on Go to Resource

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-deployment-complete-5.PNG[Create Azure web app Complete,align="center" width=75%]

=== Configure Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App
* Select Configuration on the right panel

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-resource-6.PNG[Create Azure web app Complete,align="center" width=75%]

* Add the following Application Settings

+
[cols="1,1"]
|====
| *Application Setting* | *Value*
| *accept_license* 
| Y
| *WEBSITES_PORT* 
| 8888
| *JUPYTER_TOKEN*

> | Your desired Jupyter Lab token, if not added, Jupyter Lab will randomly generate one, requiring perusing the logs, if left blank Jupyter Lab the environment would not be locked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Define the Jupyter Lab access token that you would like to use. If you don't specify any, the container will generate a new token and log it to the console. You will need to retrieve it from the application logs.
```

|====

* Click on save, your app will be restarted

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-resource-config-7.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

* Return to the Overview tab on the right panel

=== Load Vantagecloud Lake demos to Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App
* Click on Default domain

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-resource-8.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

* On the Jupyter Lab start dialogue enter the defined Jupyter token and click Log in

image::{dir}/azure-jupyter-console-auth-9.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

* On the Jupyter Lab console click on the git icon

image::{dir}/azure-jupyter-console-10.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

* Copy the following URI in the corresponding field
** `https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git`
* Click Clone

image::{dir}/azure-jupyter-console-clone-11.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

> * On the Jupyter Lab console click in the Lake Demos folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the Jupyter Lab console click in `lake-demos` folder
```

image::{dir}/azure-jupyter-console-click-lake-demos-12.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

image::{dir}/azure-jupyter-console-lakedemos-13.PNG[Config Azure web app,align="center" width=75%]

=== Find the IP of the Jupyter Lab extensions Azure Web App

> * On JupyterLab open a notebook with Teradata Python kernel and run the following command for finding your notebook instance IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In JupyterLab open a notebook with Teradata Python kernel and run the following command to find your notebook instance's IP address.
```

+
[source, python, id="lakedemos_azure_first_config", role="emits-gtm-events, content-editable"]
----
import requests
def get_public_ip():
    try:
        response = requests.get('https://api.ipify.org')
        return response.text
    except requests.RequestException as e:
        return "Error: " + str(e)
my_public_ip = get_public_ip()
print("My Public IP is:", my_public_ip)
----

> ** We will whitelist this IP in your VantageCloud Lake environment in order to allow the connection
> ** This is for purposes of this guide and the notebooks demos. For production environments, a more robust networking setting might be needed
> ** Azure App Service offers, as well, a list of all possible IP addresses that the service might expose. This is under the overview tab

Reviewer: I suggest we adjust the verbiage a bit. Also, should this not be a callout instead?

```suggestion
** The next step is whitelist this IP in your VantageCloud Lake environment to allow the connection
** This is for purposes of this guide and the notebook demos. For production environments, a more robust networking setting might be needed
** Azure App Service offers, as well, a list of all possible IP addresses that the service might expose. This is under the overview tab
```

image::{dir}/azure-app-service-ips-14.PNG[Loaded JupyterLab,align="center" width=75%]

== VantageCloud Lake Configuration
* In the VantageCloud Lake environment, under settings, add the IP of your notebook instance

> ** A lake environment supports multiple address whitelisting

Reviewer: This sounds like a "by the way" INFO or TIP callout

Author: Changing to that

image::{auxdir}/sagemaker-lake.PNG[Initiate JupyterLab,align="center" width=75%]

== Jupyter Notebook Demos for VantageCloud Lake

=== Configurations

> * The file https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/vars.json[vars.json file] should be edited to match the configuration of your VantageCloud Lake environment +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/vars.json[vars.json] should be edited to match the configuration of your VantageCloud Lake environment +
```

image::{auxdir}/sagemaker-vars.PNG[Initiate JupyterLab,align="center" width=75%]

* Especifically the following values should be added 

+
[cols="1,1"]
|====
| *Variable* | *Value*

| *"host"* 
| Public IP value from your VantageCloud Lake environment

| *"UES_URI"* 
| Open Analytics from your VantageCloud Lake environment
| *"dbc"*
| The master password of your VantageCloud Lake environment
|====

+

> IMPORTANT: Remember to change all passwords in the vars.json file.
> 
> * You'll see that in the sample vars.json, the passwords of all users are defaulted to "password", this is just for illustration purposes, you should change all of these password fields to strong passwords, secure them as necessary, and follow other password management best practices.

Reviewer: Perhaps it makes more sense to switch order here? That way we offer the context first and then enforce the message with the callout?

```suggestion
* You'll see that in the sample vars.json, the passwords of all users are defaulted to "password", this is just for illustration purposes, you should change all of these password fields to strong passwords, secure them as necessary, and follow other password management best practices.

IMPORTANT: Remember to change all passwords in the vars.json file.
```
